At the foundation level of this project, there needs to be a way to take text, record it, and then link to it.

The 2 biggest problems in computer science as I understand them are

  naming things
  
  cache invalidation
  
  off by one errors
  
It is my understanding that I can skip the first 2 by the following steps

  never name things - use their cryptographic hash to refer to them, in a manner like git, et al
  
  in order to deal with time / spacetime / all things timey/whimey, I'll use an idea that appears to be absurd on the surface, but should prove to be quite useful once implemented... immutable text
  
  yes, that's right... you can never, EVER change the text once it's put in the buffer, it remains, and becomes part of a version of the text at that point in spacetime. You can, however, build a new version that makes modifications to it, much in the same manner as git (notice a theme?)
  
so, down at the byte level... there has to be a structure that programmers can wrangle, this is the first version, a prototype that I've avoided making for decades, but now boldy attempt

goals:
  ability to ingest a plain text (ASCII, because I'm old, maybe UTF-8 later) as a valid base layer document to build upon
  
  references based on content hash
  
  local and redundant copies of sources to try to avoid broken links if at all possible
  
  a consistent and simple method of building deltas
  
  examples in multiple programming languages / that work in both Windows and Linux worlds
  
  documentation that doesn't suck
  
  eventually - ability to mark up things other than text, including images, sound, video, 3d models, whatever.
  
byte level stuff:

  plain text is just a buffer of stuff, ASCII, UTF-8, as found in the wild.
  *Surly* opinion - string and text (not UTF-8, of course) CAN contain zeros
  
  address scheme  
  
    hash : begin : end
	  hash - the cryptographic hash of a layer's plain text representation
	  begin / end - the BYTE offsets of the start and end that is being referenced
	    0 is BEFORE the first character, 1 is after it 
		if the offsets are zero, only the space between characters is referenced
		
  reference scheme
    address from above
	type of reference
	  0 - invalid
	  1 - internet source address
	  2 - in memory address of copy
	  3 - on disk filename of copy
	  4 - fork (uncertain what this means for the moment)

  linking scheme
    protocol version - 1 byte
	source address - see above address scheme
	reference count - [4 bytes]  (think big!) - how many references are there to this source?
	  reference[n] - n references that link to the source in a bidirection manner
	  
	

  source 